<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
                      "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Blog History</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="general.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <h2>Blog History</h2>
        <h3>Fri, 01/31/2014</h3>
        <h4>etf7</h4>
        <p> This week has been mainly focused on obtaining the texts. Since we have decided that we
            will for sure be using Harry Potter, we have to get around legal issues. Thankfully our
            professor knows someone that has sections of the text we want, in several different
            languages. Of the ones that we can use, there is English, German, and Slovak. The only
            language that we need now will be French. Fortunately, one of our proactive team members
            has already seen that the French version of the text can be checked out at the Carnegie.
            The only problem with this is that now the French text will need to be typed up. </p>
        <p>Our next steps are to sit down and think about what we will be looking for, what will we
            be contrasting with the other foreign languages, and how we want to display our
            findings. We are all linguistic majors, so we will have this as our main focus. We will
            see if there is something that can be explained linguistically in terms of any errors
            made by Google translate. </p>
        <h3>Fri, 02/07/2014</h3>
        <h4>rrl17</h4>
        <p>Hello!</p>
        <p>This past week we discussed what our focus should be. We decided that for comparison
            purposes, we should focus on translating each foreign text into English and compare it
            with the original English version of Harry Potter 1, rather than translating from
            English to the foreign languages. However, if we have time we may do a small selection
            of text in the other direction for comparison. We discussed our expectations for the
            errors and possible markup, and, in order to create our schema, we each took a sample of
            our choice language (French, German, and Slovak) and translated it into English, marking
            everything that deviates from the original English and noting what type of error it is.
            We will be comparing these and making our schema within the next week. </p>
        <p>We also received confirmation of access to ParaSol and discovered that actually does have
            a French version of Harry Potter 1 =D </p>
        <p>We have also been working on our home page and should be getting it onto github very
            soon.</p>
        <h3>Fri, 02/14/2014</h3>
        <h4>etf7</h4>
        <p> We have gathered our texts! And this past week we spent some time individually marking
            them up for what we’re calling “divergences.” Based on our preliminary mark ups and
            based on some linguistic papers that give guidelines on how to mark up errors in writing
            and in speech, we’re going to sit down tomorrow and finalize how we’re going to
            categorize and code these divergences.</p>
        <p> Some of our thoughts so far: So we’re using the term “divergences” because the mark up
            we do isn’t going to explicitly be error mark up. First of all, what is an error, i.e.,
            what needs to be corrected to make the sentence grammatical, is an arbitrary decision.
            For example, “The boy have a bicycle.” Depending on how you look at it, the error could
            be that the subject NP is not plural OR the verb is not correctly conjugated (“The boys
            have a bicycle” versus “The boy has a bicycle”).</p>
        <p> To compensate for this and to compensate for the unwieldy amount of divergences we’re
            sure to find in at least the Slovak translations (Google translate handles German fairly
            well!), we have decided to sit down tomorrow and try out the idea of marking all the
            verbs in both translations -- and in the process, we’ll necessarily identify all the
            clauses and sentences as well -- and then we’ll mark whether or not the gTranslated verb
            differs from the official English version. Finally, we plan to note how the verbs
            differ.... are they a synonym for what’s in the official English, but still
            grammatically meaningful? Are they lexically incorrect? Do they differ in tense,
            subject, direct object?</p>
        <p> Finally, when once we accumulate our data, for each translation, we can give ratios and
            report on the number of divergences that appeared per sentence, per paragraph, per
            passage, per chapter, etc. And we can give percentages on what percentage of divergences
            in each translation was still grammatical versus ungrammatical, and on what kind of
            grammaticality existed. </p>
        <h3>Fri, 02/21/2014</h3>
        <h4>etf7</h4>
        <p> For our project, we have a very interesting aspect that is diversity within the same end
            goal. It isn't the easiest thing to work with four different languages, and then try to
            compare the results. To do so, this is why we are using the English text of Harry
            Potter, translated into our foreign languages of choice, then back into English. Also,
            it is super relevant because of the primary use of Google Translate. Most of the time,
            users will be taking a foreign language and translating it into their own, which is what
            we are doing in our project! This past week we have been able to mark up the
            translations of our texts. In our last meeting we wrote our Relax NG schema for the XML
            documents that we are making for each of the languages. </p>
        <p> We have the tag 's' around each sentence, with the mandatory attributes "in" for
            insertion, "del" for deletion, "tr" for transposition, and "diff" for difference. It is
            then within each sentence that we can specifically use the tag 'diff' to specify what
            the differences are. For each tag of 'diff', we have to choose one of the following
            attributes, "det", "n", "v", "adj", "adv", "pp", "pro", respectively based on the part
            of speech. We then also have to choose a type attribute for the 'diff', which will be
            one of the following, "ten", "cas", "num", "gen", "mst", or "moo". These are the tense,
            case, number, gender, mistranslate, and mood errors. This is a great way to tag our
            documents so that we will all be able to compare our findings when we are all done with
            the same sections.</p>
        <h3>Fri, 02/28/2014</h3>
        <h4>rrl17</h4>
        <p> After beginning mark-up we found that some adjustments to our schema were needed. We
            will now be marking deleted and inserted words directly on the words in question, and we
            are giving all mistakes a 'dif' tag which will include, in addition to the lexical
            category of the word(s) and the error, an id tag that will allow us to connect it back
            to the original foreign-language version of Harry Potter. As such, we will no longer be
            marking these on the sentence level, but only the word-order errors, which we changed to
            a true/false mark-up. </p>
        <p>This week we also, finally, were able to successfully use gitHub, so our website pages
            can be found there. Since the text we are using is under copyright we cannot post our
            texts, but everything else will be going into gitHub. </p>
        <p>We also updated our home page and added an additional page for our blog history, so if
            anyone needs to go back and read our previous blog posts, most of them can be found at:
            http://translate.obdurodon.org/blog.xhtml </p>
        <p>Mostly this week, though, we have been marking up our individual google-translated
            versions of chapter one of Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.</p>
    </body>
</html>
